
3. Xray Meeting

  Quick share screen - Screenshot
  Strucutre - square planar nets of telluride, erbium in green, the modulation is on
the z-axis McCurry's view is the incommensurablity can be expleined by structures in
fig 2. He's saying that these have a tendency to form trimers or tetramers where the
joined ones are slightly more likely than those that er not joined up. Presuming
we've taken the wave vector and worked out how you can get that periodicity.
(Evolution with temperature) 
  When you change the discomensurations where you get gaps between the two. 
  As a function of temperature - looking at the divergence in the behavior of...
  You can end up with different real space things. No particular justification except
this is the kind of thing you can see with PDF. 
  And above Tc is the short range just a bunch of three nad four plane 
  He claims the telluric planes are intrinsically unstable (bonding is unstable)
Te-Te is a little too big. This eccentuates the value of th epdf. 

  The reference fo the paper "JACS" from 2005-6 Christos, Divergence in the behavior
of the charge density wave in RETe3 IRE rare earth element with temperature.
https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/ja0641608
 and the earlier paper. 
    Christos D. Malliakas and Mercouri G. Kanatzidis

This conclusion is solely based on teh Q - doesn't say how they got the structure.
Rationalization for how you get that wave vector. 

In principle we can test this with the pdf. There ought to eb two bond lengths for
Te, a long one and a shrot on. 

Stefan: they do a FOurier expansion, it will not be three and four, it will be a sum
of some cosine functions.

There is supporting documentation in the paper. Need to read the giomaki paper (?)

Ian's old paper with Nancy Ru. Second harmonics (Fig 4) +/- 0.28 It's not so
symmetric. Krishna seems to think they've seen the asymmetries in the reciprocal
compound.

Matt: the asymmetry was increased as you add more Palladium

S: the differentiation as a function of doping is that the lower doped samples don't
show a temperature dependence but the higher doped samples do. If you look at the
temperature dependence. It is more important to look at things as a function of
variables. THe undoped sample - along the l-axis.

Need to look into whether CMCM conditions are a bit weird. Which one is bragg peak
which one is not. 

Xray spectrum of a pinned CDW phys rev b 70
Alberto Rosso and Thierry Giamarchi

Matt was tyring a 
Variation of the filter technique so you did a background subtraction
before looking at the CDW. 

A good benchmark would also be to not remove the background. 
If the background is 3 counts then that subtraction makes no difference, however
here...

We need a conclusion soon. Can we get something within a week?

Symmetrization - the transform data has already been reduced and has lost some
ifnormation. 
If one of the contributions has WAY different statistics, then you get a bad result
by averagin. It is a bigger deal for neutrons. Here the weights are oging to be close
to each other. The step function where we covered the data twice (far away from the
beamstop is going to be 0.5 or something. )

Under f1 we have transform then data then weights. All the detector counts are put
into bins (the background looks fairly uniform) The main nomralization is that you
can see the wedge (overlap region). Plotting the weights (show link right click on
the array) then double click the n (you lose the Qh Qk) But then you can see pretty
uniform weights. There is a double covered ring in the center. 

When you look in the transform in the entry it has summed up the data and divides by
the weights. You've then lost the weights information so there can be difficulty in
symmetrization. You get artifacts. 

If you have the data and the weights without the normalization. Symmetrize the data,
symmetrize the weights and then combine them. Ray: Should we just automate this?

Matt: if you have an orthognal system then yes you could do that
If the crystal system does not have orthogonal axes then you don't want to do that
many operations anyway. For hexagonal systems, you do the transform three itmes. 

Can we write a symmetrization routine in julia (maybe a student)?

This way you don't have to cover which octant is overly represented.

The nexpy script is per account on nxrs0. Nexpy has private script directories (might
change that) Could have a separate script directory for each GUP directory. Great
idea. Setting another directory as being the default script directory. Post that
somewhere. 

Subtracting (black image) - the idea was to 
punch out the q-vectors that I think are interesting (long list of the vectors, and
generate a stencil and tile that across every brouillon zone and gehn enerate the
punch dataset. Instead of taking out bragg peaks there are locations not on the bragg
positions. The feature I'm tring to isolate and understand now is, 

cs2agbibr6. There are lots of superlattice peaks. Punched out the superlattice peaks.
Then the interpolation will actually smooth out and make the superlattice peaks
isolated. Subtract the areads that are smoothed out from the areas that are zero.
(inverse punch and fill) isolate a single eature throughout every zone estimate the
background ...

interesting pdf data. THe goal was to understand the superlattice peaks - the output
signal (symmetrization was done incorrectly) something tha tshould be symmetric is
not, but what you see is the brightest signal is coming from superlattice peak
positions This is Ql=7.3
Should plot in hl plane we're more used to looking at. 
It is very difficut to look at this data. Weak schmutz sneaks in. THe main feature is
right there. The fft in the xz plane looks surpirsingly clean displacement
correlation features   
The only atoms that share positions in y are the te te planes that have the two basis
body centered type unit cell. The y=0 plane so x

In the erbium case the erbium tellurium distance is not very large. At half-half
positions we see a counter. 
All the stuff is going along x. You see a negative position corelation her, positive
on here, dropout at 2.5= y. 

We could compare the natural tendency to get these trimers (or tetramers?) If they
tend to align in a row like that then you have a pos displacement correlation ...
periodicity of 3, 4, they;d have a cancelling point somewhere. 

If you do a projection x = 0 line. There ought to be a 3+4 kind fo unit. 
Can we some see extra periodicity? 

Half the pieces here. Two pole system. It's pseudo-tetragonal . 
We don't see that in the scattering data. There's pronounced ...
Displacement vector could be expected to be parllel to x. 
 
back to pdxErTe3. From zero to --+, +-+, 3+4 beating structure or something. We see
this. We don'ts ee the beat at 2.5. THere is an intensity modulation. 

iCould we take the FFT of this? Could we get the beat?
They're all smoothing first second harmonic. Might expect a continuous commensureate
model. Might get wave vectors at the same q points but

In a sense we've done that. In a  cts model instead of two short one long (2+3 type
motif you have something that goes gradyally from short to long smoothly) in q-space
we'd be able to see if there are actually harmonics we'd see if there's the 

Not exactly the same fourier series, this is a two-part. real soace o fthe cdw. 

Going bac to the projection window, can you actually plot a sinusoidal modulation
that goes through all those points? One cut that would incorporate both the integer
and non integer lattice informatin - you'd have to cinclude those they'd probably be 

Figure 2 thing is on nxrs 0 under fft label. The standard punch and fill ought to be
dominated by thsi signal 

You could plot a cosine with the same periodicity that could go through every single
peak (Ray). Doesn't look posisble unless ...

S: autocorrelation of the sinusoidal with a sinusoidal ... might have to run a
correlation. We are not in real space we are in patterson space. 

Ray: wouldn' teb the first time that I've oversimplified something

what is the autocorrelation of a sine function?

We need to meet before the regular emeting too. 
These could also include rare earth tellurium planes, but...

All of our real sapce displacements are going along x. (30K) there must be a very
weak component (three temps, it looks nothing like this). 

At 150K there might be a smudge along the x axis.. there might be an h component we missed. 

Cdw 2 is an x axis modulation (three peaks to the right of 7 on the screenshot). What
is not a bragg peak, and what is. 670 is also not a bragg peak. 

symmetrization script from Matt. Go to the script menu there's a all the ones that
appear in the menu are in a private script folder .nexpy directory - could on
principle share, can open a normal file dialog. Then just run it in the shell. Often
the scripts are definitions of functions. 


Important: Lots of stuff here
use the data that have doping first. THen the pure sample. 

I copied the symmetrization script to:
/ohm/GUP-72832/scripts/
There are notes in the onenote - there are going to be symmetries in the doped data.
Ray has a conflict this Thrusday, can move the meeting up or back....

onenote rte3 

recall New PdxErTe3 data:
/ohm/GUP-728832/PdxErTe3_0x0/b5669 
(this should be most comparable to what you have already done, but this sample has much less mosaic. Masked transforms are complete for all temperature.)
If you're interested in new data:
/ohm/GUP-728832/PdxErTe3_0x0/d5671
/ohm/GUP-728832/PdxErTe3_0x0/b5653

