1. Xray
  A. Run Vishwas's notebook
  Call to vishwas, clean up the notebook. 
  Back and forth with the repo. 

Meeting notes April 1, 2021:

Vishwas: The rods in the movo dataset are creating depressions in the interpolation at
the Bragg peaks. 
  Is there a way to keep the rods?
  The smoothest possible interpolant is not desirable in this case - is there a way
to preserve the derivative information? epsilon helps regularize...
  anisotropic interpolation is probably necessary for this system - we will read up
and report back.
  The link to the interpolated data is on the slack channel 

Charlotte: Some updates on Erbium Telluride
   To properly symmetrize:
   assuming the weights are one (averaging) is slightly but not horribly incorrect.
TO do this right, you need to get the f1 f2 f3 transforms, symmetrize both the data
and the weights and then divide the data by the weights. Accessing this is as simple
as:
   data.f1.transform[1.0,:,:].data.plot(log=True,cmap=plt.cm.gray)
   or masked_transform - normally we use this for pdfs

   There is a new erbium telluride dataset, Matt knows where it is 

Puspa: trying to model SRN0 system
  Rotating the icosahedron
  (I didn't fully understand the discussion, but it was interesting) i
From the delta-pdf we counter-rote the bottom left icosahedrion around the z axis.
This produces three peaks red-blue-red (pos-neg-pos triplet), in the average
structure the tin2 (Sn2) bonds are the same, but in the rotated structure tere are
two bond lengths. (from Ray's one note)
  You can get a three-peak fit. The minimum rotation to produce this can be
determined. If we double the 0.19 -> 0.38 (low temperature doubled unit cell) These
ions are all at 0.38 and 0.42... trigonometric calculation. The angle is whatever it
takes to produce these distances. 
  Is the data consistent with a bigger distortion?

Additional discussion:
Ray: Can we generate a pdf out of the discus output from this simulation?
Matt: Yes. Another question (for the developer) - can you generate the pdf directly
from the structure?  
   I've done this on 2D data and you end up seeing (lots- you get an average out of
many small calculations) the result will be more robust. There are some limitations
to that. Artifacts from calculating from lots. 

There is a meeting tomorrow with the Cornell folks. 

