Cornell Folks X-TEC meeting

1. Xtec meeting
  A. From APS march meeting 
  Krishna: Trajectories from raw dave - two charge density wave regimes. 
  3D structure - k(b*) is the out of plane axis, there are two different patterns of
hte CDW peaks for k even and k odd, There is a three dimensional order necessary for
bragg glass. 
  How robust is the 3d structure (how much of the CDW is violating the 3D structure?)
for each k slice (screenshot)
  THe disallowed intensity is almost zero except with 0.5% doping. There is an
extinct cdw peak projecting on. The allowed peaks are larger than the extinct peaks.
The interesting thing is that when k=0, it has zero intensity for all of the dopings
in the allowed CDW. This supports the 3D-ness of the system. 
  It is not a random phase, k = 1,2 has an enhanced peak. Is this well understood?
  Ian Fisher: Christos Malyakis did the original analysis (4D) 3D ordered CDW.
Haven't given much thought to this. THe b-axis is long in recip space o you get
intensity going from one plane to the next (crystal bending). If you take a cut in
the next plane you may find there are peaks adjacent. 
  Krishna: THe phase could be locked in different planes. You could have a different
phase in 
  Ian: strain coupling to the lattice (long range effect)
  Krishna: 0.5% has a small issue, but the other samples are good. 
  Testinf gor Bragg glass signatures 
    CW feature extraction asymmetry - signature of pinning. 
  The divergent asymmetry of CDW satellite peaks (res. limited) Q-q_CDW > Q> Q+q_CDW
  1/Q^2 divergence fo the bragg glass phase or otherwise Lorentzian. (asymmetry in
the divergence, that is.)
  Asymmetric component goes 1/Q
  Want to see the temp dependence of the asymmetry ratio. Have difference between the
structure factors. 
  A pristine sample should be temp independent for asymmetry ratio
  A = | \frac{I(Q+q_CDW) - I(Q-q_CDW)}}{I(Q+q_CDW) + I(Q-q_CDW)} |
  Slection rule allowed peaks
  It is much better when you take the asymmetry between closely related peaks e.g.
closer satellite peak.
  THe dopeds amples behave differently from the undoped samples in the asymmetry
ratio. 
  The asymmetry ratio averaged over all Q - the 2.6% and 2.0% show the same
enhancement systematically compared to the single CDW pair. 
The point of the symmetry ratio is to determine if the disorder is interacting with 
the CDW.
  Ian: On left - the jump up is the onset of the cdw disorder for x = 0.0, and even
x=0 there is some disorder induced background thing. Subtracting the background does
not affect the low temperature. Result: there is already some diffuse scattering at
the CDW for disordered structure but you already notice an asymmetry. 
  THe absolute of the green & orange dotted curve are higher than the red one. What
is the uncertainty? Look at trends... jump up. Is the green one significantly larger
than the red one?
  Krishna: Old and new 0% doping, look at asymmetry ratio between old and new sample,
there is a veyr different characteristic - and even for a single peak
  If there is, other thna doping, something that controls the asymmetry
  Ian: I think the new sample is much better, but I think the uncertainty could eb
large. 
  Matt: They did two undoped samples. THe old data had significant mosaic spread
especially for small values of k. Probably will impinge on the locations where you're
looking at CDWs. Having looked at the old/new data, there is more that is useable in
the old data than one would htink.
  The 0.5% sample had many of the same issues from new/old. 

---> took a brief break from the presentation to get the data at 30K.

  Eun-Ah: 0 doping is different than everybody el, which is not represented in the
current phase diagram. This is WHY the Bragg glass ...
  two features: existence and abscence of temperature dependence in these features. 
  Slide - all of he data behaving the same way, and slide showing zero doping
behaving different than the rest. 
  Bragg grass is going to have asnisotropy ratio going up as you lower the
temperature, but undoped it stays constant. The anisotropy of undoped case is what
makes the difference. The existence of anisotropy ratio tells us that the CDW is
independent of disorder. 
  The phase diagram has a singular point at zero doping and all the rest at finite
doping. 
 0.5% is showing very slow temp dependence. Confidence on this dependence would be
good. 
 Eun-Ah with the cDw 2 we don't know (dynamic range is smaller bc - is much smaller
scale) The two axes are plotted w diff scale.
 Should ocntrast this with total intensity, for context.
 
Matt: Making rapid progress now. Different look at the data. 
  Overview of the ErTe3 sample, {b5669,d5671,b5653}, the first two are pure samples,
and then there's a two percent sample 5653. The origin had significant mosaic spread.
The new data have less power but less osaic. The curves off the origin are detector
artifacts. The new sample has extra powder rings but less mosaic. One HL plane has
less spread going into the adjacent plane and makes it difficult to look at. 
  Two pure samples - 669 has lots of powdery grains but correct symmetry
  671 
  Looking at K plane the b-sample bragg peaks always alternate (h+K is always even
condition K = odd there are peaks at odd k, etc) take a cut  you might get extra
intensity at bragg peaks from rods. The 5671 has a bragg peak at every k position. 
  It will be interesting - similar features but has diff transition temperatures. 
  WHat is the same and what's different abou tthe samples
  CDW evolution in 669
  - first onset between 250-260K, q = (0,0.0.3)
  the h0l plane has a diamond feature - hte four peaks , there are rods going around
(thermal) the 101 locations. Crystalline junk gets worse as we go down in
temperature. 
  Extra peaks at high temperature 220K. H, l both even you get peaks at about 0.3 off
in l. The diamond scattering is still present. 
  Step down in temp to 115K and you te a box around bragg positions which set in as
we get down to base temperature (30K). 
  Overview done. Want to check the asymmetry things. 

Ian: diamond is diffuse scattering coming from e.g. local defects (susceptibility).
the peak (broad maximum in susceptibility) does not occur at the CDW, it is just near
it. If you have nailed that, then Frank's paper ...

Matt: You can distinugis the corner of the diamond from the CDW

Ian: as a function of the... the diffuse scattering get sbroader everything merges
together. 

Matt: do these get broader with temperature?
  The distinction between Hl here is very sharp. It's as if it's been symmetrized. 
You actually see the same features
in this other sample but you've lost the distinction between h and l. You have
diamond scatteirng you hav ethe same cdw vectors with the same 

Ian: periodic stacking fold?

Matt: hl in one orientation and then they move 90deg. Look at the LK plane, you only
have bragg peaks at. ... You jsut have that sqitch. You don't see the doubling at
these even pieces. 

Stephan: if you have repeating. The bragg peas are still sharp. There can't be
stacking so there would be significant broadening. 

Matt: Maybe there is a tendency of these layers to aggregate in the way we're used to
seeing, but then after a few thousands of unit cells, but the break happens in the
crystal where they're aligned in their growth. 

Ian: Possible that the 2-5 compound, singlplane doubleplane singleplane doubleplane
stacking fault on a large enough scale that it's ordered

Stephan: or twinning

Matt: It's so far between the faults

Ian: Not technically a twin: a twin has to hsare a plane of atoms
  Homework for Krishna from good sample: what happens if you look at asymmetry of
diffuse peaks on the diamonds separae from the sharp peaks of the CDW vectors. COuld
you mask these? For this compound (for the pristine one the CDW is totally flat, and
diffuse peaks near to them are too) at 005% then is there still a separation of the
peaks, would the diffuse state begin to develop some asymmetry?

Krishna: Diamond is where?

Ray: It's actually symmetric...

Ian: -8 by 5

Stephan: Josh't paper from the electron diffraction it's phys rev b 99 shows this as
much clearly. 

Matt: nexpy ad-hoc, h=7, l=-7 region blowout. 5669, h0l, 30K
  If we're closer to h00 or l00 line oyll see all four sides but h00 type here you
get two sides of it
  If we go down in temperature, it gets weaker. You lose the diamond. Right around
the onset at 135 you can make out he scattering you cant' see the second cdw. If you
go to 85 the diamond is really starting to go away. The thermal diffuse scattering
may have a similar temp dependence.
  Ray: There's a sharp peak offset from the CDW, that suggests a sharp soft mode 
  Stephan There's a second soft mode that doesn't go alongcdw2. There are two bumps.
In that direction we didn't see (yes you do) the sof tmode.

Ian: quasi 2D it looks kind of fermi surface nesting but it's not. This becomes a
textbook phenomenon. 

Matt: slice along h=-8 k = 0 plane. 
  false bragg peaks are rods coming from out of the plane. 
  The weak peaks are broader. Soft -ing

Stephan: we haven't resolved two soft modes

Ian: once you're in the CDW state, as the gap opens and the thing gets more strongly
reconstructed the diamond gets less well pronounced. 

We get up to 300K the cdw is gone, that's orange, 30K is green it's weaker but it's
sharper. 

Ray: it's like there's an extra component to the order parameter. It's pretty sharp.

Eun-ah's parting words: write a paper narrative. 

--- took a break: Ray wants to meet on Monday as well to coordinate the delta-pdf

very low temperature you're seeing the second harmonic. 
30 i blue 150 in orange, cdw is gone in green  (300) subtle effects. 
  Line cut as its own measurement - 

Ray: you would see subtle second harmonics in the pdf

Ian: second harmonics were celar in turbium telluride. They just did primitive line
cuts. Paper with nancy rue, line cuts, and stephan and frank's paper. It's really
clear. 

Matt: Wuestion (unrelated) josh pointed in direction of Palladiaum intercalants, they
were pretty inconclusive, what are the exact locations?

Ian: unkown. It's easiest for this to go inside the tellurium planes, but as a
funcion of lattice compostion... Turbium telluride not Erbium telluride, btw.

Matt: Notes on the intercalated compounds, you do have obvious asymmetric effects
across the bragg pekas that suggest some relaxation to link to Kriashans; asymmmetry
observations. 

Stephan: not a zone center it's a zone boundary. 

Matt: will need to rethink all of these vectors - that's why this looks the way it
does. If the ref point is the center of the brouillon zone it's not really a zone
center...

Stephan: h707 is also not a bragg peak. 

Matt: finite l but zero h. 

Stephan: this is a zone boundary. 

Ian: sharing - blue are primary, red are secondary, fundamental and harmonic. Here
two twoQ, the weak intesnity ones are just toone side. That's the pattern you're
showing. That's where these peaks line up on the diffuse scattering diamonds re. The
second harmonic is weak (see log scale). Diagram from Nancy Ru paper prb 77 035114

Stephan: l=0 is a zone center here, but this is not true for the sample we have.

Ian: you guys know what to do, but electron phonon coupling is important here. Double
